docs/walkthrough/creating-addresses.md, before:

# Creating addresses

In this tutorial we will focus on how you can get Fetch.ai mainnet/testnet addresses, and stock testnet ones with tokens.

First things first, it's the perfect time to install Pocketbook, our command-line based Python wallet and address book.

!!! warning "**You use this application at your own risk**"
    Whilst Fetch.ai have made every effort to ensure its reliability and security, it comes with no warranty. It is intended for the creation and management of Fetch.ai mainnet wallets and transactions between them. You are responsible for the security of your own private keys (see `~/.pocketbook` folder). Do not use this application for high-value operations: it is intended for utility operations on the main network.

Pocketbook can be easily installed in Linux and on the Mac. Open a terminal window and type:

``` bash
pip3 install -U pocketbook
```

The `-U` option ensures that if you already have it installed, it will upgrade where applicable.

Pocketbook defaults to access the main network. You can change the network using the `-n` parameter. E.g.:

``` bash
pocketbook -n testnet <command>
pocketbook -n mainnet <command>
```

For details of how to use Pocketbook, you can use its help option `-h`.


## Creating a new address

### Using Pocketbook

Simply run the following command:

``` bash
pocketbook create
```

You will be prompted to enter a name for this key pair, followed by a password for the key. Below is a sample output:

```
Enter name for key: foo
Enter password for key...:
Confirm password for key.:
```

It is the user's responsibility to store the private key to this securely. Addresses generated inside Pocketbook will have the private keys encrypted and secured, so you don't need to store them manually, but you do need to back them up yourself. 

Pocketbook stores all information in the `~/.pocketbook` folder on your computer. You can back this folder up entirely to store your encrypted private keys. We **strongly recommend** that you do this regularly and keep the backups in an encrypted safe place in order to provide a mechanism for recovering your accounts.

### Using the web testnet wallet

For testnet addresses only, you can also use our [web-based wallet](https://testnet-wallet.fetch.ai/). You will be prompted to enter the password for the address twice.

### Using the Python Ledger API

Installing Pocketbook also installs the Python Ledger API ([GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetchai/ledger-api-py)), which enables you to create and interact with addresses programmatically.

Let's get started with a simple Python program that generates an address and outputs the private key (hex and in bytes) and the address; you can add the latter to Pocketbook or use to receive tokens from others.

``` python
from fetchai.ledger.api import LedgerApi, TokenApi
from fetchai.ledger.contract import Contract
from fetchai.ledger.crypto import Entity, Address

print ("My Fetch.ai Address Generator v1.0")

# this gets us an API connected to the testnet endpoint:
try:
	api = LedgerApi(network="testnet")
except Exception as e:
	sys.exit(e)
	
entity = Entity()
print ("Private key: ", entity.private_key_hex)
print ("           : ", entity.private_key_bytes)
print ("    Address: ", Address(entity))
```

For example, if you save the above file into a program called `generate_address.py`, you can run it and will get a result like this:

```
$ python3 generate_address.py 
Fetch.ai Address Generator v1.0
Private key:  341f00f7890063eefd3568f2f5c7c310802fd32b3a15a111ac0fbfb4a65ce07b
           :  b'4\x1f\x00\xf7\x89\x00c\xee\xfd5h\xf2\xf5\xc7\xc3\x10\x80/\xd3+:\x15\xa1\x11\xac\x0f\xbf\xb4\xa6\\\xe0{'
    Address:  2uGQSyM56XfkaFeoyYib2dt4rvFwVZ6if5JREZd54d1sNehEQ5
```

!!! warning "**Do not use this account**"
    This account and its private key are shared with anyone who reads this tutorial. Just to reiterate, *any account you wish to use yourself, do not, ever, for any reason, disclose the private key in public, on the internet, or anywhere people can see it*. So don't post the output of the above program here!


## Adding an address to Pocketbook

We may now want to add the address we just created (or another provided by other users) to Pocketbook. Once an address is added, you can send tokens to it or query the balance. You can add existing addresses like this:

``` bash
pocketbook -n <network> add <name-for-the-address> <address>
```

For our particular example:

``` bash
pocketbook -n testnet add GeneratedTestnetAddress 2uGQSyM56XfkaFeoyYib2dt4rvFwVZ6if5JREZd54d1sNehEQ5
```


## Listing an address balance

You can query the balance of your accounts and address book entries with a command like the following:

``` bash
pocketbook -n <network> list [-v]
```

Adding the `-v` option will display the addresses alongside the names and balances.

For our particular example:

```
$ pocketbook -n testnet ls -v
Name                    Type Balance          Stake Address
GeneratedTestnetAddress addr 0.0              0.0   2uGQSyM56XfkaFeoyYib2dt4rvFwVZ6if5JREZd54d1sNehEQ5
```

Commit message:

Added clarification sentence before creating an address

docs/walkthrough/creating-addresses.md, after:

# Creating addresses

In this tutorial we will focus on how you can get Fetch.ai mainnet/testnet addresses, and stock testnet ones with tokens.

First things first, it's the perfect time to install Pocketbook, our command-line based Python wallet and address book.

!!! warning "**You use this application at your own risk**"
    Whilst Fetch.ai have made every effort to ensure its reliability and security, it comes with no warranty. It is intended for the creation and management of Fetch.ai mainnet wallets and transactions between them. You are responsible for the security of your own private keys (see `~/.pocketbook` folder). Do not use this application for high-value operations: it is intended for utility operations on the main network.

Pocketbook can be easily installed in Linux and on the Mac. Open a terminal window and type:

``` bash
pip3 install -U pocketbook
```

The `-U` option ensures that if you already have it installed, it will upgrade where applicable.

Pocketbook defaults to access the main network. You can change the network using the `-n` parameter. E.g.:

``` bash
pocketbook -n testnet <command>
pocketbook -n mainnet <command>
```

For details of how to use Pocketbook, you can use its help option `-h`.


## Creating a new address

You can use any of the following methods to create an address.

### Using Pocketbook

Simply run the following command:

``` bash
pocketbook create
```

You will be prompted to enter a name for this key pair, followed by a password for the key. Below is a sample output:

```
Enter name for key: foo
Enter password for key...:
Confirm password for key.:
```

It is the user's responsibility to store the private key to this securely. Addresses generated inside Pocketbook will have the private keys encrypted and secured, so you don't need to store them manually, but you do need to back them up yourself. 

Pocketbook stores all information in the `~/.pocketbook` folder on your computer. You can back this folder up entirely to store your encrypted private keys. We **strongly recommend** that you do this regularly and keep the backups in an encrypted safe place in order to provide a mechanism for recovering your accounts.

### Using the web testnet wallet

For testnet addresses only, you can also use our [web-based wallet](https://testnet-wallet.fetch.ai/). You will be prompted to enter the password for the address twice.

### Using the Python Ledger API

Installing Pocketbook also installs the Python Ledger API ([GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetchai/ledger-api-py)), which enables you to create and interact with addresses programmatically.

Let's get started with a simple Python program that generates an address and outputs the private key (hex and in bytes) and the address; you can add the latter to Pocketbook or use to receive tokens from others.

``` python
from fetchai.ledger.api import LedgerApi, TokenApi
from fetchai.ledger.contract import Contract
from fetchai.ledger.crypto import Entity, Address

print ("My Fetch.ai Address Generator v1.0")

# this gets us an API connected to the testnet endpoint:
try:
	api = LedgerApi(network="testnet")
except Exception as e:
	sys.exit(e)
	
entity = Entity()
print ("Private key: ", entity.private_key_hex)
print ("           : ", entity.private_key_bytes)
print ("    Address: ", Address(entity))
```

For example, if you save the above file into a program called `generate_address.py`, you can run it and will get a result like this:

```
$ python3 generate_address.py 
Fetch.ai Address Generator v1.0
Private key:  341f00f7890063eefd3568f2f5c7c310802fd32b3a15a111ac0fbfb4a65ce07b
           :  b'4\x1f\x00\xf7\x89\x00c\xee\xfd5h\xf2\xf5\xc7\xc3\x10\x80/\xd3+:\x15\xa1\x11\xac\x0f\xbf\xb4\xa6\\\xe0{'
    Address:  2uGQSyM56XfkaFeoyYib2dt4rvFwVZ6if5JREZd54d1sNehEQ5
```

!!! warning "**Do not use this account**"
    This account and its private key are shared with anyone who reads this tutorial. Just to reiterate, *any account you wish to use yourself, do not, ever, for any reason, disclose the private key in public, on the internet, or anywhere people can see it*. So don't post the output of the above program here!


## Adding an address to Pocketbook

We may now want to add the address we just created (or another provided by other users) to Pocketbook. Once an address is added, you can send tokens to it or query the balance. You can add existing addresses like this:

``` bash
pocketbook -n <network> add <name-for-the-address> <address>
```

For our particular example:

``` bash
pocketbook -n testnet add GeneratedTestnetAddress 2uGQSyM56XfkaFeoyYib2dt4rvFwVZ6if5JREZd54d1sNehEQ5
```


## Listing an address balance

You can query the balance of your accounts and address book entries with a command like the following:

``` bash
pocketbook -n <network> list [-v]
```

Adding the `-v` option will display the addresses alongside the names and balances.

For our particular example:

```
$ pocketbook -n testnet ls -v
Name                    Type Balance          Stake Address
GeneratedTestnetAddress addr 0.0              0.0   2uGQSyM56XfkaFeoyYib2dt4rvFwVZ6if5JREZd54d1sNehEQ5
```
