docs/aea/cli-gui.md, before:

You can invoke the AEA Command Line Interface (CLI) from a Graphical User Interface (GUI) accessed from a web browser.

These instructions will take you through building an agent, starting an OEF Node, and running the agent - all from the GUI.

## Preliminaries

Follow the Preliminaries and Installation instructions <a href="../quickstart" target=_blank>here</a>.

Install the extra dependencies for the CLI GUI.

```python
pip install aea[cli_gui]
```


## Starting the GUI
Go to the directory in which you will create new agents. If you followed the quick start guide, this will be `my_aea`.

Start the local web-server.
``` bash
aea gui
```
Open this page in a browser: [http://127.0.0.1:8080](http://127.0.0.1:8080)

You should see the following page.

<center>![new gui screen](assets/cli_gui01_clean.png)</center>

On the left-hand side we can see any agents you have created and the protocols, connections, and skills they have. Initially this will be empty - unless you have followed the quick start guide previously and not deleted those agents.

On the right-hand side is the Registry which allows you to search all the protocols, connections and skills which are available to you to construct your agents.

To create a new agent and run it, follow these steps.
<center>![gui sequence](assets/cli_gui02_sequence.png)</center>

1. In the [Create Agent id] box on the left. type the name of your agent - e.g. my_new_agent. This should now be the currently selected agent - but you can click on its name in the list to make sure. 
2. Click the [Create Agent] button - the newly created agent should appear in the [Local Agents] table.
3. On the right hand side, search the `echo` skill and click on it - this will select it.
4. Click on the [Add skill] button - which should now say "Add echo skill to my_new_agent agent".
5. Start an OEF Node by clicking on the [Start OEF Node] button. Wait for the text saying "A thing of beauty is a joy forever..." to appear. When you see that, the node has started successfully.

<center>![start node](assets/cli_gui03_oef_node.png)</center>

6. Start the agent running by clicking on the [start agent] button. You should see the output from the echo agent appearing on the screen.

<center>![start agent](assets/cli_gui04_new_agent.png)</center>

This is how your whole page should look if you followed the instructions correctly.

<center>![whole screen running](assets/cli_gui05_full_running_agent.png)</center>


<br />

Commit message:

Add latest docs, aligned with v0.1.14

docs/aea/cli-gui.md, after:

You can invoke the AEA Command Line Interface (CLI) from a Graphical User Interface (GUI) accessed from a web browser.

These instructions will take you through building an agent, starting an OEF Node, and running the agent - all from the GUI.

## Preliminaries

Follow the Preliminaries and Installation instructions <a href="../quickstart" target=_blank>here</a>.

Install the extra dependencies for the CLI GUI.

```python
pip install aea[cli_gui]
```


## Starting the GUI
Go to the directory in which you will create new agents. If you followed the quick start guide, this will be `my_aea`.

Start the local web-server.
``` bash
aea gui
```
Open this page in a browser: [http://127.0.0.1:8001](http://127.0.0.1:8001)

You should see the following page.

<center>![new gui screen](assets/cli_gui01_clean.png)</center>

On the left-hand side we can see any agents you have created and beneath that the protocols, connections and skills they have. Initially this will be empty - unless you have followed the quick start guide previously and not deleted those agents.

On the right-hand side is a search interface to the Registry which gives you access to protocols, connections, and skills which are available to add to your agent.

To create a new agent and run it, follow these steps.
<center>![gui sequence](assets/cli_gui02_sequence_01.png)</center>

1. In the [Create Agent id] box on the left. type the name of your agent - e.g. my_new_agent. 
2. Click the [Create Agent] button - the newly created agent should appear in the [Local Agents] table. This should now be the currently selected agent - but you can click on its name in the list to make sure. 
3. Click in the search input box and type "echo"
4. Click the [Search] button - this will list all the skills with echo in their name or description. Note that at present this search functionality is not working and it will list all the skills
  
<center>![gui sequence](assets/cli_gui02_sequence_02.png)</center>

5. Find the Echo skill and click on it - this will select it.
6. Click on the [Add skill] button - which should now say "Add echo skill to my_new_agent agent".
7. Start an OEF Node by clicking on the [Start OEF Node] button. Wait for the text saying "A thing of beauty is a joy forever..." to appear. When you see that, the node has started successfully.

<center>![start node](assets/cli_gui03_oef_node.png)</center>

8. Start the agent running by clicking on the [start agent] button. You should see the output from the echo agent appearing on the screen.

<center>![start agent](assets/cli_gui04_new_agent.png)</center>

This is how your whole page should look if you followed the instructions correctly.

<center>![whole screen running](assets/cli_gui05_full_running_agent.png)</center>


<br />
