# Transaction fees

When it comes to blockchain networks, transaction fees serve **two crucial functions**: 

1. **To compensate miners or validators that assist and confirm transactions**. Indeed, transaction fees serve as a reward 
   for users that assist in validating and verifying transactions. Consider it as a prize for assisting the network. 
   
2. **To defend the network against spam assaults**. In fact, transaction fees lead to a decrease in spam on the network, 
   because large-scale spam assaults become more expensive and more difficult to execute.

Transaction fees are generally affordable for most blockchains, but they can become fairly expensive depending on 
network activity. Transaction fees might be _modest_ or _substantial_. The fees you pay might also be influenced by 
market forces. In addition to this, the amount of fees you decide to pay as a user impacts your transaction's priority 
for inclusion in the following block. 

**Users that wish to execute their transaction more quickly can even increase the transaction cost to enhance the 
likelihood that it will be added to the following block of transactions. In fact, the confirmation procedure moves along 
more quickly the more money that is spent.**

Although every blockchain is unique, they all have a _limited amount of transactions that may fit into a single block_. 
For instance, the Bitcoin network allows for a maximum of 2,800 transactions per block. The amount of transactions 
waiting to be added might have an impact on miner fees. Miners prioritize the validity of fresh transactions based on 
these fees during times of heavy network traffic. 

As part of the process of adding transactions to a new block, bitcoin miners are compensated with these transaction 
fees. Miners will prioritize transactions associated with higher fees, whereas those related to low fees are considered
as unconfirmed transactions and are gathered in specific memory pools (i.e. mempool). 

In this context, malicious actors must pay a price for each transaction if they want to slow down the network. They risk 
having their transactions ignored by miners if they set the fee too low. If they set them at an appropriate level, they
pay a significant economic price. _Transaction fees thus serve as a basic but efficient spam filter_.
 
Some cryptocurrency wallets on the Bitcoin network enable users to directly determine their transaction fees in a manual 
fashion. It is also possible to send BTC with no fees associated, but it is likely that miners would not confirm such 
transactions. The transaction cost required for quick confirmation rises when network traffic is heavy and there is a 
strong demand for transferring bitcoins. This is because more bitcoin users are trying to transmit bitcoins at the same 
time. This could happen when the market is extremely volatile.

Compared to Bitcoin, Ethereum transaction fees operate in a different way. On the Ethereum network, transaction fees are 
referred to as **gas**. The gas cost accounts for the amount of processing power required to complete a transaction. The 
native currency of the network, ether (i.e. ETH), is used to monitor the fluctuating price of gas. Gas costs can go up 
or down, even if the amount of gas required for a given transaction might not change. _The amount of network traffic 
directly affects this gas price_. Miners are more likely to give your transaction priority if you pay more for gas. 
Simply said, the total gas fee is the cost of processing your transaction plus a reward. 

The gas limit, which specifies the maximum price to be paid for that transaction or assignment, should also be taken 
into account. In other words, the price of gas represents the cost per hour of labor, whereas the cost of gas represents 
the total quantity of effort. The cost of an Ethereum transaction or smart contract execution is determined by the 
relationship between these two and the gas limit. Gas costs are anticipated to drop as Ethereum moves closer to a 
Proof-of-Stake mechanism. The network will require less processing power to validate transactions, resulting in a 
reduction in the amount of gas required to confirm a transaction. Although validators prefer higher-paying transactions, 
network traffic might still have an impact on transaction costs. Visit the following link for further details about 
_Ethereum 2.0_ and the "_Serenity_" upgrade: 

[What is Casper, the Latest Ethereum Upgrade?](https://www.investopedia.com/news/what-casper-latest-ethereum-upgrade/#:~:text=Under%20the%20Casper%20protocol%2C%20as,on%20that%20block%20in%20ether)

**On the Fetch.ai network, the gas mechanism is made simple and gives you an option to pick high, medium, or low fees, 
in addition to allowing you to manually set the amount you wish to pay**. Fetch.ai does operate some of the validators on
the network, which further gives it influence over the gas fee levels. Even though some constraints are set by Fetch.ai 
on  gas fees, the decentralized nature of the network guarantees that transaction fees are not set by any central 
authority, and the actual level of gas is set by each of the validators on the Fetch network. Fetch.ai has the 
philosophy that having high gas fees does no good for anyone, and because of this, the Fetch team wants to encourage 
everyone to use the network, and trade and transact using $FET token. 

Low fees encourages high network traffic, and high network traffic means more transactions and activity and therefore 
more fees being paid. However, $FET that are traded and transferred on other networks are subject to the gas fees that 
those networks charge and Fetch has no control whatsoever over those fees. The fees gathered on the Fetch network are 
distributed among the stakeholders (i.e. validators and community stakeholders). Gas fees on the Fetch network are very 
very low when compared to other networks. As a general comparison, Juno Network, another ecosystem blockchain within the
Cosmos ecosystem has fees that on average are $0.05 USD per transfer, whereas Fetch.ai transfers cost 
$0.000000000000001 USD at the present time. 

These gas fees  are calculated in an extremely fair way, the fee is directly proportional to the computing power that 
the process to do the action takes up. So for example a simple purchase transaction takes less computing time up than 
activating a smart contract, therefore the fee is lower. 

**There is full transparency too, as it is always clear what the gas fee will be before making a transaction, and so 
there are no hidden surprises.**