docs/basics/staking/how_to_stake.md, before:

To stake your FET using the [Fetch wallet](/basics/wallet/getting_started):

1. Ensure you are logged into your [Fetch wallet](/basics/wallet/getting_started).
2. On the wallet dashboard, select **Stake**. You should be redirected to the [ledger explorer](https://browse-fetchhub.fetch.ai/validators).
Here you will find a list of every active validator to whom you can stake your FET. You can also see details such as the amount of FET staked to each validator, and their commission rates.
4. Connect your wallet, if it is not yet connected, by pressing **Connect Wallet** at the top right.
![Wallet extension web version](../../images/staking/wallet_web_version.jpg)
5. Choose a validator to whom you want to stake your FET and hit **Stake**. 
6. In the new window, select the amount of FETs you want to delegate to this validator and press **Stake**.
7. Your Fetch Wallet shows you a summary of the transaction. Review it, select a transaction fee, and if you are happy, hit **Approve** to complete the operation.

## Claim your Rewards

To claim your staking rewards, from the Fetch wallet dashboard select **Claim**.

Commit message:

add what is staking, edit how to stake, delete medium article

docs/basics/staking/how_to_stake.md, after:

On this page, you will find instructions on how to stake FET, how to claim your staking rewards, and how to remove your stake using the [Fetch wallet](/basics/wallet/getting_started).

## To Stake

1. Ensure you are logged into your [Fetch wallet](/basics/wallet/getting_started).
2. On the wallet dashboard, select **Stake**. You should be redirected to the [ledger explorer](https://browse-fetchhub.fetch.ai/validators).
Here you will find a list of every active validator to whom you can stake your FET. You can also see details such as the amount of FET staked to each validator, and their commission rates.
3. Connect your wallet, if it is not yet connected, by pressing **Connect Wallet** at the top right.
![Wallet extension web version](../../images/staking/wallet_web_version.jpg)
4. Choose a validator to stake your FETs with and hit **Stake**.

    !!! tip
        To see details of any validator, such as their voting power, self-bonded rate, uptime, active/inactive status at any given time, and contact information, head over to [this web page](https://explore.fetch.ai/validators). For a visualization of the validators' voting power (more is NOT better) check out [this page](https://explore.fetch.ai/voting-power-distribution).

5. In the new window, select the amount of FETs you want to delegate to this validator and press **Stake**.

    !!! tip
        Don't forget to leave some FETs undelegated, as some amount is necessary to pay for transaction fees when submitting any transaction to the main network. The fee is very minimal, but it is still important to make sure you have some FETs to pay for it.

6. Your Fetch Wallet shows you a summary of the transaction. Review it, select a transaction fee, and if you are happy, hit **Approve** to complete the operation.

## To Claim your Rewards

To claim your staking rewards, from the Fetch wallet dashboard select **Claim**.

## To Remove your Stake

1. Click on your wallet address on the top right of the web page and you'll be taken to your **staking** dashboard.
2. Scroll down to **Delegations**. Click **Remove Stake**.
3. In the pop-up, enter the amount of FET you wish to remove from your stakes. Click **Remove Stake**.
4. You should now be prompted to pay the gas fee for the transaction and you can do so by selecting **Approve**.

On the staking dashboard you can also claim your staking rewards, redelegate your stake with the [how to redelegate guide](./redelegate-for-decentralization.md).
