docs/etch-language/variables.md, before:

<h1>Variables</h1>

`etch` is a statically-typed programming language. For good coding practice, you should explicitly declare all variable types.

Declare a variable with the keyword `var`. Declare numeric values with literals where possible. You can also use an explicit type cast operation. See below for explicit type declaration rules.


[!comment]: <> (## Assignments TODO:)


## Naming

Variable naming follows the same rules as C++.

``` c++
function main()

    var ABC = 1;
    var abc = 2;
    var _abc = 3;
    // var *abc = 4; // error at '*', expected variable name
    // var 123 = 5; // error at '123', expected variable name
    var a123 = 6;
    var a_123 = 7;

endfunction
```





## Integers

Integers can be signed or unsigned and are *currently* restricted to the width range 8-64 bits (1 to 8 bytes).

They are declared as signed `Int8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, and unsigned `UInt8`, `UInt16`, `UInt32`, `UInt64`, `UInt256`.

`Int32` is the compiler default so you don't need to explicitly declare this type.

Below is a selection of example integer assignations including any errors on operations currently unsupported.

``` c++
function main()

	// default signed 32 bit integer type
    var int32bit_default = 42;
    // declaring the variable type
    var int32bit : Int32 = -43;
    printLn(toString(int32bit_default));
    printLn(toString(int32bit));

endfunction
```

``` c++
function main()

    // assigning various signed integer types explicitly and with label
    var int8a = 0i8; 
    printLn(toString(int8a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var int8b : Int8 = -0i8; 
    printLn(toString(int8b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var int16a = 0i16; 
    printLn(toString(int16a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var int16b : Int16 = -1i16; 
    printLn(toString(int16b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'

endfunction
```

``` c++
function main()

    // Int32 is default but can be explicit also
    var int32a = 0i32;
    printLn(toString(int32a));
    var int32b : Int32 = -1i32;
    printLn(toString(int32b));
    var int64a = 0i64;
    printLn(toString(int64a));
    var int64b : Int64 = -1i64; 
    printLn(toString(int64b));

endfunction
```

``` c++
function main()

    // assigning various unsigned integer types
    var uint8a = 45u8; 
    printLn(toString(uint8a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var uint8b : UInt8 = 1u8; 
    printLn(toString(uint8b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var uint16a = 0u16; 
    printLn(toString(uint16a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var uint16b : UInt16 = 1u16; 
    printLn(toString(uint16b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'

endfunction
``` 

``` c++
function main()

    // assigning various unsigned integer types
    var uint32a = 0u32;
    printLn(toString(uint32a));
    var uint32b : UInt32 = 1u32; 
    printLn(toString(uint32b));
    var uint64a = 0u64;
    printLn(toString(uint64a));
    var uint64b : UInt64 = 1u64;
    printLn(toString(uint64b)); 

endfunction
```

In the current version, `UInt256` is built from a `UInt64` literal, like this:
``` c++
function main()

   var uint256 = UInt256(100u64); 
   printLn(toString(uint256));

endfunction
```


## Floats

Signed and unsigned decimal numbers are available as floating point types in 32 and 64 bit representation (4 and 8 bytes).

Unspecified floats default to `Float64`. 

A `Float` declared with `f` is `Float32`.

Float types are declared as `Float32`, `Float64`.

``` c++
function main()

	// default 64 bit float declaration
	var float64bit_default = 64.0;
	// 64 bit type declaration
	var float64bit : Float64 = 64.0;
	printLn(toString(float64bit_default));
	printLn(toString(float64bit));

	// var float32bit : Float32 = 32.0; // error: incompatible types
	// declare 32 bit float with `f`
	var float32bit = 32.0f;
	printLn(toString(float32bit));

endfunction
```


## Fixed Points

Fixed point variables are available as  `Fixed32` and `Fixed64` types.

You must declare `FixedPoint` variables with the postfix literals `fp32` and `fp64`.



``` c++
function main()

    var fixed32bit : Fixed32 = 32.1fp32; 
    var fixed64bit : Fixed64 = 64.1fp64; 

    printLn(toString(fixed32bit));
    printLn(toString(fixed64bit));

endfunction

```

For brevity, you do not need the full declaration.

``` c++
function main()

    var fixed32bit = 2.0fp32;
    var fixed64bit = 3.0fp64;

    printLn(toString(fixed32bit));
    printLn(toString(fixed64bit));

endfunction
```

## Boolean

Declare and initialise `Bool` types as follows:

``` c++
function main()

	var myFBool : Bool = false;
	var myTBool : Bool = true;
	
	printLn(toString(myFBool)); 
	printLn(toString(myTBool)); 	

endfunction
```


## Strings

Declare and initialise strings as follows:

``` c++
function main()

    var myString : String = "hello";
    var myInferredString = "hello again";
    var x: String = null;

    printLn(myString);
    printLn(myInferredString);
    printLn(myInferredString + " " + myString);
    printLn(x); 

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` Strings [here](strings.md).


## Arrays

You must explicitly declare array element types and array size. 

`Array<Type>(size)` declares an array with elements of type `Type` and size `size`.


``` c++
function main()

	var myArray = Array<Int32>(5);
	myArray[0] = 40;
	myArray[1] = 41;
	myArray[2] = 42;
	myArray[3] = 43;
	myArray[4] = 44;

	printLn(toString(myArray[3]));

	for (i in 0:4)
		printLn(toString(myArray[i]));
	endfor

    printLn(myArray);

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` Arrays [here](arrays.md).


## Buffer

Create a `Buffer` byte array type like this:

``` c++
var myBuffer = Buffer(8);
```


## Maps

Declare the dictionary `Map` type with `Map<KeyType, ValueType>()`.

``` c++
function main()

    var myMap = Map<String, Int32>();
    myMap["balance1"] = 1000; 
    myMap["balance2"] = 2000; 
    myMap["balance3"] = 3000; 

    printLn(toString(myMap["balance1"]));
    printLn(toString(myMap["balance2"]));
    printLn(toString(myMap["balance3"]));

endfunction
```

!!! note
    Coming soon: common `Map` operations.
    

## StructuredData types

A `StructuredData` type is another map type containing key/value pairs. 

The main difference with `Map` is that a `StructuredData` type will always be able to generate `yaml`, `json`, or similar.

``` c++
function main()

    var data = StructuredData();

    data.set("key1", 200i32);
    data.set("key2", 500u64);
    data.set("key3", "hello world");

    printLn(toString(data.getInt32("key1")));
    printLn(toString(data.getUInt64("key2")));
    printLn(data.getString("key3"));

endfunction

```


<!--
## Matrices

!!! note
	Coming soon: `Matrix` type with common matrix operations.

Declare the `Matrix` type with `Matrix<ElementType>(Rows, Cols)`.

``` c++
function main()

	// var myMatrix : Matrix<Int32>(5, 5); // error at '(', expected '=' or ';'
	// Failed to compile.

endfunction
```
-->



## States 

A `State` is a data structure used by `etch` smart contracts for storing and querying data on the Fetch.AI ledger shards. 

Unique identifiers for ledger data are created at `State` construction time.

Declare and initialise a `State` type with `State<ValueType>` where values set with `set()` are mapped to the unique ledger identifier`account`:

``` bash
var myState = State<Int32>("account");
```

Getters and setters are available for `State` types.

``` c++
function main()

    var myState = State<Int32>("account");
    myState.set(10);
    printLn("My state var value = " + toString(myState.get()));

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` States [here](states.md).




## ShardedState

A `ShardedState` is also used for reading and writing data to the Fetch.AI ledger. However, it is much more efficient and powerful. 

`ShardedState` uses `State` types behind the scenes but, for `etch` programmer purposes, a `ShardedState` operates like a Map with keys and values.

In the following code, we create a `ShardedState`, `set()` a key/value pair on it, and finally we print the value using `get()` on a key with a default value.

``` c++
function main()

    var myShardedState = ShardedState<Int32>("account1");
    myShardedState.set("salary", 45000i32);
    printLn(toString(myShardedState.get("salary", 0i32)));

endfunction

```

Find out more about `etch` ShardedStates [here](sharded-state.md).



## Addresses

The cryptographic `Address` type is currently represented by a 64 byte binary canonical <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm" target="_blank">ECDSA public key</a> which is then base 58 encoded. 

Declare and initialise an `Address` like this:

``` c++
function main()

  var account = Address("2ifr5dSFRAnXexBMC3HYEVp3JHSuz7KBPXWDRBV4xdFrqGy6R9");

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` Addresses [here](./addresses.md).



## Mathematical, ML, and AI

`etch` provides powerful mathematical, machine learning, and AI specific data types and functions. 

For more details on the mathematical computation functions above, please check the section on [maths libraries and functions](./maths-libs.md).

For more details on the machine learning implementations, please check the section on [machine learning and artificial intelligence](./ML-AI.md).



## Type casting

If you need a specific non-default numerical type, you can make an explicit cast of the default `Int32` and `Float64` types.

Use `to<Type>Name` to type cast. 

There is no implicit type casting in `etch`.
 
``` c++
function main()

    // signed 32 bit integer type
    var int32bit = 42;
    // cast to Int8
    var int8Variable = toInt8(int32bit);
    // cast to Int16
    var int16Variable = toInt16(int32bit);
    // cast to Int64
    var int64Variable = toInt64(int32bit);
    // cast to UInt8
    var uint8Variable = toUInt8(int32bit); 
    // cast to UInt16
    var uint16Variable = toUInt16(int32bit);
    // cast to UInt32
    var uint32Variable = toUInt32(int32bit);
    // cast to UInt64
    var uint64Variable = toUInt64(int32bit);


    // float casting
    var float64bit = 42.0;
    // cast to Int8
    var intFVariable = toInt32(float64bit);
    // cast to Float32
    var float32Variable = toFloat32(float64bit);
    // cast to Float64
    var float64variable = toFloat64(int32bit);

    // cast to string
    var stringVariable = toString(int32bit);

endfunction
```

<!--

## Constants

!!! note
	Coming soon: support for constants.
-->


## Data size

In the table below, we detail the memory size of each data type.

Type | Memory size 
------------ | ------------- 
Int8 | 1 byte 
Int16 | 2 bytes 
Int32 | 4 bytes  
Int64 | 8 bytes   
UInt8 | 1 byte 
UInt16 | 2 bytes 
UInt32 | 4 bytes   
UInt64 | 8 bytes 
UInt256 | 32 bytes 
Float32 | 4 bytes 
Float64 | 8 bytes 
Bool | 1 byte 
String | 8 bytes + length character size (changing with UTF-8) 
Array | 8 bytes + length x element size 
Map | 8 bytes +  n x (key + value) storage 
Address | 32 bytes 


Currently, there is a 2 unit charge per 1 byte of ledger storage.


## Scope

`etch` has no global variables. 



## Null

Non-primitives can be set to null. 

``` c++
function main()

    //  var myInt = null; // error: unable to infer type
    var str : String = null;
    var myArray : Array<Int32> = null;
    var myMap : Map<Int32, Int32> = null;
    var myState : State<Int32> = null;
    var myAddress : Address = null;

    var myString : String = null;
    printLn(myString); // (nullptr)

endfunction
```

## Default values

Certain types not explicitly initialised receive a default value.


Type | Default value 
------------ | ------------- 
Int8 | tbc 
Int16 | tbc  
Int32 | 0  
Int64 | 0  
UInt8 | tbc 
UInt16 | tbc 
UInt32 | 0  
UInt64 | 0 
UInt256 | tbc
Float32 | 0.000000
Float64 | 0.000000
Bool | false
String | no default


<br/>

Commit message:

Release/v0.5.x (#23)
* fix for abs error in version 5

* updates to version 5 smart contract section

docs/etch-language/variables.md, after:

<h1>Variables</h1>

`etch` is a statically-typed programming language. For good coding practice, you should explicitly declare all variable types.

Declare a variable with the keyword `var`. Declare numeric values with literals where possible. You can also use an explicit type cast operation. See below for explicit type declaration rules.


[!comment]: <> (## Assignments TODO:)


## Naming

Variable naming follows the same rules as C++.

``` c++
function main()

    var ABC = 1;
    var abc = 2;
    var _abc = 3;
    // var *abc = 4; // error at '*', expected variable name
    // var 123 = 5; // error at '123', expected variable name
    var a123 = 6;
    var a_123 = 7;

endfunction
```





## Integers

Integers can be signed or unsigned and are *currently* restricted to the width range 8-64 bits (1 to 8 bytes).

They are declared as signed `Int8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, and unsigned `UInt8`, `UInt16`, `UInt32`, `UInt64`, `UInt256`.

`Int32` is the compiler default so you don't need to explicitly declare this type.

Below is a selection of example integer assignations including any errors on operations currently unsupported.

``` c++
function main()

	// default signed 32 bit integer type
    var int32bit_default = 42;
    // declaring the variable type
    var int32bit : Int32 = -43;
    printLn(toString(int32bit_default));
    printLn(toString(int32bit));

endfunction
```

``` c++
function main()

    // assigning various signed integer types explicitly and with label
    var int8a = 0i8; 
    printLn(toString(int8a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var int8b : Int8 = -0i8; 
    printLn(toString(int8b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var int16a = 0i16; 
    printLn(toString(int16a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var int16b : Int16 = -1i16; 
    printLn(toString(int16b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'

endfunction
```

``` c++
function main()

    // Int32 is default but can be explicit also
    var int32a = 0i32;
    printLn(toString(int32a));
    var int32b : Int32 = -1i32;
    printLn(toString(int32b));
    var int64a = 0i64;
    printLn(toString(int64a));
    var int64b : Int64 = -1i64; 
    printLn(toString(int64b));

endfunction
```

``` c++
function main()

    // assigning various unsigned integer types
    var uint8a = 45u8; 
    printLn(toString(uint8a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var uint8b : UInt8 = 1u8; 
    printLn(toString(uint8b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var uint16a = 0u16; 
    printLn(toString(uint16a)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'
    var uint16b : UInt16 = 1u16; 
    printLn(toString(uint16b)); // error: unable to find matching function for 'toString'

endfunction
``` 

``` c++
function main()

    // assigning various unsigned integer types
    var uint32a = 0u32;
    printLn(toString(uint32a));
    var uint32b : UInt32 = 1u32; 
    printLn(toString(uint32b));
    var uint64a = 0u64;
    printLn(toString(uint64a));
    var uint64b : UInt64 = 1u64;
    printLn(toString(uint64b)); 

endfunction
```

In the current version, `UInt256` is built from a `UInt64` literal, like this:
``` c++
function main()

   var uint256 = UInt256(100u64); 
   printLn(toString(uint256));

endfunction
```


## Floats

Signed and unsigned decimal numbers are available as floating point types in 32 and 64 bit representation (4 and 8 bytes).

Unspecified floats default to `Float64`. 

A `Float` declared with `f` is `Float32`.

Float types are declared as `Float32`, `Float64`.

``` c++
function main()

	// default 64 bit float declaration
	var float64bit_default = 64.0;
	// 64 bit type declaration
	var float64bit : Float64 = 64.0;
	printLn(toString(float64bit_default));
	printLn(toString(float64bit));

	// var float32bit : Float32 = 32.0; // error: incompatible types
	// declare 32 bit float with `f`
	var float32bit = 32.0f;
	printLn(toString(float32bit));

endfunction
```


## Fixed Points

Fixed point variables are available as  `Fixed32` and `Fixed64` types.

You must declare `FixedPoint` variables with the postfix literals `fp32` and `fp64`.



``` c++
function main()

    var fixed32bit : Fixed32 = 32.1fp32; 
    var fixed64bit : Fixed64 = 64.1fp64; 

    printLn(toString(fixed32bit));
    printLn(toString(fixed64bit));

endfunction

```

For brevity, you do not need the full declaration.

``` c++
function main()

    var fixed32bit = 2.0fp32;
    var fixed64bit = 3.0fp64;

    printLn(toString(fixed32bit));
    printLn(toString(fixed64bit));

endfunction
```

## Boolean

Declare and initialise `Bool` types as follows:

``` c++
function main()

	var myFBool : Bool = false;
	var myTBool : Bool = true;
	
	printLn(toString(myFBool)); 
	printLn(toString(myTBool)); 	

endfunction
```


## Strings

Declare and initialise strings as follows:

``` c++
function main()

    var myString : String = "hello";
    var myInferredString = "hello again";
    var x: String = null;

    printLn(myString);
    printLn(myInferredString);
    printLn(myInferredString + " " + myString);
    printLn(x); 

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` Strings [here](strings.md).


## Arrays

You must explicitly declare array element types and array size. 

`Array<Type>(size)` declares an array with elements of type `Type` and size `size`.


``` c++
function main()

	var myArray = Array<Int32>(5);
	myArray[0] = 40;
	myArray[1] = 41;
	myArray[2] = 42;
	myArray[3] = 43;
	myArray[4] = 44;

	printLn(toString(myArray[3]));

	for (i in 0:4)
		printLn(toString(myArray[i]));
	endfor

    printLn(myArray);

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` Arrays [here](arrays.md).


## Buffer

Create a `Buffer` byte array type like this:

``` c++
var myBuffer = Buffer(8);
```


## Maps

Declare the dictionary `Map` type with `Map<KeyType, ValueType>()`.

``` c++
function main()

    var myMap = Map<String, Int32>();
    myMap["balance1"] = 1000; 
    myMap["balance2"] = 2000; 
    myMap["balance3"] = 3000; 

    printLn(toString(myMap["balance1"]));
    printLn(toString(myMap["balance2"]));
    printLn(toString(myMap["balance3"]));

endfunction
```

!!! note
    Coming soon: common `Map` operations.
    

## StructuredData types

A `StructuredData` type is another map type containing key/value pairs. 

The main difference with `Map` is that a `StructuredData` type will always be able to generate `yaml`, `json`, or similar.

``` c++
function main()

    var data = StructuredData();

    data.set("key1", 200i32);
    data.set("key2", 500u64);
    data.set("key3", "hello world");

    printLn(toString(data.getInt32("key1")));
    printLn(toString(data.getUInt64("key2")));
    printLn(data.getString("key3"));

endfunction

```


<!--
## Matrices

!!! note
	Coming soon: `Matrix` type with common matrix operations.

Declare the `Matrix` type with `Matrix<ElementType>(Rows, Cols)`.

``` c++
function main()

	// var myMatrix : Matrix<Int32>(5, 5); // error at '(', expected '=' or ';'
	// Failed to compile.

endfunction
```
-->



## States 

A `State` is a data structure used by `etch` smart contracts for storing and querying data on the Fetch.AI ledger shards. 

Unique identifiers for the ledger data are created at `State` construction time. These are unique to the smart contract alone.

Declare and initialise a `State` type with `State<ValueType>` where values set with `set()` are mapped to the unique ledger identifier`account`:

``` bash
var myState = State<Int32>("account");
```

Getters and setters are available for `State` types.

``` c++
function main()

    var myState = State<Int32>("account");
    myState.set(10);
    printLn("My state var value = " + toString(myState.get()));

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` States [here](states.md).




## ShardedState

A `ShardedState` is also used for reading and writing data to the Fetch.AI ledger. However, it is much more efficient and powerful. 

`ShardedState` uses `State` types behind the scenes but, for `etch` programmer purposes, a `ShardedState` operates like a Map with keys and values.

In the following code, we create a `ShardedState`, `set()` a key/value pair on it, and finally we print the value using `get()` on a key with a default value.

``` c++
function main()

    var myShardedState = ShardedState<Int32>("account1");
    myShardedState.set("salary", 45000i32);
    printLn(toString(myShardedState.get("salary", 0i32)));

endfunction

```

Find out more about `etch` ShardedStates [here](sharded-state.md).



## Addresses

The cryptographic `Address` type is currently represented by a 64 byte binary canonical <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm" target="_blank">ECDSA public key</a> which is then base 58 encoded. 

Declare and initialise an `Address` like this:

``` c++
function main()

  var account = Address("2ifr5dSFRAnXexBMC3HYEVp3JHSuz7KBPXWDRBV4xdFrqGy6R9");

endfunction
```

Find out more about `etch` Addresses [here](./addresses.md).



## Mathematical, ML, and AI

`etch` provides powerful mathematical, machine learning, and AI specific data types and functions. 

For more details on the mathematical computation functions above, please check the section on [maths libraries and functions](./maths-libs.md).

For more details on the machine learning implementations, please check the section on [machine learning and artificial intelligence](./ML-AI.md).



## Type casting

If you need a specific non-default numerical type, you can make an explicit cast of the default `Int32` and `Float64` types.

Use `to<Type>Name` to type cast. 

There is no implicit type casting in `etch`.
 
``` c++
function main()

    // signed 32 bit integer type
    var int32bit = 42;
    // cast to Int8
    var int8Variable = toInt8(int32bit);
    // cast to Int16
    var int16Variable = toInt16(int32bit);
    // cast to Int64
    var int64Variable = toInt64(int32bit);
    // cast to UInt8
    var uint8Variable = toUInt8(int32bit); 
    // cast to UInt16
    var uint16Variable = toUInt16(int32bit);
    // cast to UInt32
    var uint32Variable = toUInt32(int32bit);
    // cast to UInt64
    var uint64Variable = toUInt64(int32bit);


    // float casting
    var float64bit = 42.0;
    // cast to Int8
    var intFVariable = toInt32(float64bit);
    // cast to Float32
    var float32Variable = toFloat32(float64bit);
    // cast to Float64
    var float64variable = toFloat64(int32bit);

    // cast to string
    var stringVariable = toString(int32bit);

endfunction
```

<!--

## Constants

!!! note
	Coming soon: support for constants.
-->


## Data size

In the table below, we detail the memory size of each data type.

Type | Memory size 
------------ | ------------- 
Int8 | 1 byte 
Int16 | 2 bytes 
Int32 | 4 bytes  
Int64 | 8 bytes   
UInt8 | 1 byte 
UInt16 | 2 bytes 
UInt32 | 4 bytes   
UInt64 | 8 bytes 
UInt256 | 32 bytes 
Float32 | 4 bytes 
Float64 | 8 bytes 
Bool | 1 byte 
String | 8 bytes + length character size (changing with UTF-8) 
Array | 8 bytes + length x element size 
Map | 8 bytes +  n x (key + value) storage 
Address | 32 bytes 


Currently, there is a 2 unit charge per 1 byte of ledger storage.


## Scope

`etch` has no global variables. 



## Null

Non-primitives can be set to null. 

``` c++
function main()

    //  var myInt = null; // error: unable to infer type
    var str : String = null;
    var myArray : Array<Int32> = null;
    var myMap : Map<Int32, Int32> = null;
    var myState : State<Int32> = null;
    var myAddress : Address = null;

    var myString : String = null;
    printLn(myString); // (nullptr)

endfunction
```

## Default values

Certain types not explicitly initialised receive a default value.


Type | Default value 
------------ | ------------- 
Int8 | tbc 
Int16 | tbc  
Int32 | 0  
Int64 | 0  
UInt8 | tbc 
UInt16 | tbc 
UInt32 | 0  
UInt64 | 0 
UInt256 | tbc
Float32 | 0.000000
Float64 | 0.000000
Bool | false
String | no default


<br/>
