docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to the <a href="https://fetch.ai/" target=_blank>Fetch.ai</a> documentation.




1. <a href="getting-started/versions">Getting Started</a> <br/>

	Build and install the Fetch.ai Ledger constellation, `etch` vm, and all the libraries you need. Get hold of the Fetch.ai Python Ledger API for smart contract creation. Spin up the Fetch.ai Open Economic Framework.

2. <a href="ledger/architecture">The Fetch.ai Ledger</a> <br/>

	Understand the inner workings of the Fetch.ai Ledger.

3. <a href="oef">Open Economic Framework</a> <br/>

	Learn how to create decentralised autonomous agents and interface them to the digital world. Learn how to negotiate with other autonomous agents and get things done.

4. <a href="aea">Autonomous Agent Framework</a> <br/>
	
	The modular, extensible, programming framework that allows quick and easy autonomous agent assembly.

5. <a href="etch-language">`etch` Language Guide</a> <br/>
	
	Learn how to code in `etch`, the Turing complete scripting language for smart contracts running on the Fetch.ai Ledger. 

6. <a href="smart-contracts/smart-contract-intro">Smart Contracts</a> <br/>

	Smart contracts written in `etch` run with the Python Ledger API. This section has everything you need to know about running smart contracts on the Fetch.ai Ledger.

7. <a href="tutorials/submitting_contract/">Tutorials</a> <br/>

	Here you will find a growing list of tutorials on building smart contracts. Feel free to submit your own tutorial or demo.


<br/>

Commit message:

Updating index to include link to changes

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to the <a href="https://fetch.ai/" target=_blank>Fetch.ai</a> documentation.




1. <a href="getting-started/versions">Getting Started</a> <br/>

	Build and install the Fetch.ai Ledger constellation, `etch` vm, and all the libraries you need. Get hold of the Fetch.ai Python Ledger API for smart contract creation. Spin up the Fetch.ai Open Economic Framework.

2. <a href="ledger/architecture">The Fetch.ai Ledger</a> <br/>

	Understand the inner workings of the Fetch.ai Ledger.

3. <a href="oef">Open Economic Framework</a> <br/>

	Learn how to create decentralised autonomous agents and interface them to the digital world. Learn how to negotiate with other autonomous agents and get things done.

4. <a href="aea">Autonomous Agent Framework</a> <br/>
	
	The modular, extensible, programming framework that allows quick and easy autonomous agent assembly.

5. <a href="etch-language">`etch` Language Guide</a> <br/>
	
	Learn how to code in `etch`, the Turing complete scripting language for smart contracts running on the Fetch.ai Ledger. 

6. <a href="smart-contracts/smart-contract-intro">Smart Contracts</a> <br/>

	Smart contracts written in `etch` run with the Python Ledger API. This section has everything you need to know about running smart contracts on the Fetch.ai Ledger.


Updated for ledger release v0.9x. See <a href="https://github.com/fetchai/ledger/releases/tag/v0.9.1" target=_blank>here</a> for a summary of changes.


<br/>
